CONSTITUTION
OF THE REPUBLIC OF KAZAKHSTAN
Adopted on August 30, 1995 at the republican referendum.
Entered into force on September 5, 1995 on the day the results of referendum were published.
The amendments and additions made by Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated on October 7, 1998, Law of
the Republic of Kazakhstan dd. May 21, 2007, Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated on February 2, 2011. In
accordance with the Decree of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan dated on September 6, 1995 No 2454 «Of
the Constitution of the Republic of Kazakhstan»
Look at the previous text
SectionI. General Provisions
Section II. The Individual and Citizen
Section III.The President
Section IV.The Parliament
Section V. The Government
Section VI. The Constitutional Council
Section VII.Court and justice
Section VIII.Local public administration and self-administration
Section IX. Concluding and transitional provisions
«We, the people of Kazakhstan, united by a common historic fate, creating a state on the
indigenous Kazakh land, considering ourselves a peace-loving and civil society, committed to
the ideals of freedom, equality and concord, wishing to take a worthy place in the world
community, realizing our high responsibility before the present and future generations,
proceeding from our sovereign right, adopt this Constitution».
Section I.
General Provisions
Article 1
1. The Republic of Kazakhstan proclaims itself as a democratic, secular, legal and social
state whose highest values are: an individual, his life, rights and freedoms.
2. The fundamental principles of the activity of the Republic are: public concord and
political stability; economic development for the benefit of all the nation; Kazakhstan patriotism
and resolution of the most important issues of the affairs of state by democratic methods
including voting at the republican referendum or in the Parliament.
Article 2
1. The Republic of Kazakhstan is a unitary state with a presidential form of government.
2. The sovereignty of the Republic shall cover the whole of its territory. The state shall
ensure the integrity, inviolability and inalienability of its territory.
3. The administrative-territorial division of the Republic, the status of its capital shall be
determined by the law. The Capital of Kazakhstan is Astana city.
4. The names «Republic of Kazakhstan» and «Kazakhstan» shall be equal.
Article 3
1. The people shall be the only source of state power.
2. The people shall exercise power directly through the all-nation referendum and free
elections, as well as delegate the execution of their power to state institutions.
3. Nobody shall have the right to arrogate the power in the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Arrogation of power shall be persecuted by law. The right to act on behalf of the people and the
state shall belong to the President as well as to the Parliament of the Republic within the limits of
the constitutional powers. The government and other state bodies shall act on behalf of the state
only within the limits of their delegated authorities.
4. The state power in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be unified and executed on the basis
of the Constitution and laws in accordance with the principle of its division into the legislative,
executive and judicial branches and a system of checks and balances, which governs their
interaction.
Article 4
1. The provisions of the Constitution, the laws corresponding to it, other regulatory legal
acts, international treaty and other commitments of the Republic as well as regulatory resolutions
of Constitutional Council and the Supreme Court of the Republic shall be the functioning law in
the Republic of Kazakhstan.
2. The Constitution shall have the highest juridical force and direct effect on the entire
territory of the Republic.
3. International treaties ratified by the Republic shall have priority over its laws and be
directly implemented except in cases, when the application of an international treaty requires the
issuance of law.
4. All laws, international treaties of which the Republic is a party, shall be published.
Official publication of regulatory legal acts, dealing with the rights, freedoms and
responsibilities of citizens shall be the necessary condition for their application.
Article 5
1. The Republic of Kazakhstan shall recognize ideological and political diversity. The
formation of political party organizations in state bodies shall not be permitted.
2. Public associations shall be equal before the law. Illegal interference of the state in the
affairs of public associations, and of public associations in the affairs of the state, imposing the
functions of state institutions on public associations shall not be permitted.
3. Formation and functioning of public associations pursuing the goals or actions directed
toward a violent change of the constitutional system, violation of the integrity of the Republic,
undermining the security of the state, inciting social, racial, national, religious, class and tribal
enmity, as well as formation of unauthorized paramilitary units shall be prohibited.
4. Activities of political parties and trade unions of other states, religious parties as well as
financing political parties and trade unions by foreign legal entities and citizens, foreign states
and international organizations shall not be permitted in the Republic.
5. Activities of foreign religious associations on the territory of the Republic as well as
appointment of heads of religious associations in the Republic by foreign religious centers shall
be carried out in coordination with the respective state institutions of the Republic.
Article 6
1. The Republic of Kazakhstan shall recognize by the same token protect state and private
property.
2. Property shall impose obligations, and its use must simultaneously benefit the society.
Subjects and objects of ownership, the scope and limits of the rights of proprietors, and
guarantees of their protection shall be determined by law.
3. The land and underground resources, waters, flora and fauna, other natural resources shall
be owned by the state. The land may also be privately owned on terms, conditions and within the
limits established by legislation.
Article 7
1. The state language of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be the Kazak language.
2. In state institutions and local self-administrative bodies, the Russian language shall be
officially used on equal grounds along with the Kazak language.
3. The state shall promote conditions for the study and development of the languages of the
people of Kazakhstan.
Article 8
The Republic of Kazakhstan shall respect principles and norms of international law, pursue
the policy of cooperation and good-neighborly relations between states, their equality and non-
interference in each other’s domestic affairs, peaceful settlement of international disputes and
renounce the first use of the military force.
Article 9
The Republic of Kazakhstan shall have its state symbols — the flag, emblem and anthem.
Their description and order of official use shall be established by the constitutional law.
Section II.
The Individual and Citizen
Article 10
1. Citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be acquired and terminated, as prescribed
by the law, shall be indivisible and equal regardless of the grounds of its acquisition.
2. A citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan under no circumstances may be deprived of
citizenship of the right to change his citizenship, and may not be exiled from the territory of
Kazakhstan.
3. Foreign citizenship of a citizen of the Republic shall not be recognized.
Article 11
1. A citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan may not be extradited to a foreign state, unless
otherwise stipulated by international treaties of the Republic.
2. The Republic shall guarantee its citizens protection and patronage outside its boundaries.
Article 12
1. Human rights and freedoms in the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be recognized and
guaranteed in accordance with this Constitution.
2. Human rights and freedoms shall belong to everyone by virtue of birth, be recognized as
absolute and inalienable, and define the contents and implementation of laws and other
regulatory legal acts.
3. Every citizen of the Republic shall have rights and bear responsibilities owing to his
citizenship.
4. Foreigners and stateless people in the Republic shall enjoy rights and freedoms as well as
bear responsibilities, established for the citizens unless otherwise stipulated by the Constitution,
laws and international treaties.
5. Exercise of a citizen’s human rights and freedoms must not violate rights and freedoms of
other people, infringe on the constitutional system and public morals.
Article 13
1. Legal personality of everyone shall be recognized and everyone shall have the right to
protect his rights and freedoms with all means not contradicting the law, including self-defense.
2. Everyone shall have the right to judicial defense of his rights and freedoms.
3. Everyone shall have the right to take qualified legal assistance. In cases stipulated by law,
legal assistance shall be provided free of charge.
Article 14
1. Everyone shall be equal before the law and court.
2. No one shall be subject to any discrimination for reasons of origin, social, property status,
occupation, sex, race, nationality, language, attitude towards religion, convictions, place of
residence or any other circumstances.
Article 15
1. Everyone shall have the right to life.
2. No one shall have the right to arbitrarily deprive life of a person. The death penalty shall
be established by law, as an exceptional punishment for terroristic crimes,resorting to lethal
force, and also for especially grave crimes, committed in wartime, with granting to a sentenced
person a right to appeal for pardon.
Article 16
1. Everyone shall have the right to personal freedom.
2. Arrest and detention shall be allowed only in cases stipulated by law and with the sanction
of a court with right of appeal of an arrested person. Without the sanction of a court, a person
maybe detained for a term no more than seventy-two hours.
3. Every person detained, arrested and accused of committing a crime shall have the right to
the assistance of a defense lawyer (defender) from the moment of detention, arrest or accusation.
Article 17
1. A person’s dignity shall be inviolable.
2. No one must be subject to torture, violence or other treatment and punishment, that is
cruel or humiliating to human dignity.
Article 18
1. Everyone shall have the right to inviolability of private life, personal or family secrets,
protection of honor and dignity.
2. Everyone shall have the right to confidentiality of personal deposits and savings,
correspondence, telephone conversations, postal, telegraph and other messages. Limitation of
this right shall be permitted only in the cases and according to the procedure directly established
by law.
3. State bodies, public associations, officials, and the mass media must provide every citizen
with the possibility to become familiar with the documents, decisions and other sources of
information concerning his rights and interests.
Article 19
1. Everyone shall have the right to determine and indicate or not to indicate his national,
party and religious affiliation.
2. Everyone shall have the right to use his native language and culture, to freely choose the
language of communication, education, instruction and creative activities.
Article 20
1. The freedom of speech and creative activities shall be guaranteed. Censorship shall be
prohibited.
2. Everyone shall have the right to freely receive and disseminate information by any means
not prohibited by law. The list of items constituting state secrets of the Republic of Kazakhstan
shall be determined by law.
3. Propaganda or agitation for the forcible change of the constitutional system, violation of
the integrity of the Republic, undermining of state security, and advocating war, social, racial,
national, religious, class and clannish superiority as well as the cult of cruelty and violence, shall
not be allowed.
Article 21
1. Everyone who has a legal right to stay on the territory of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall
have the right to freely move about its territory and freely choose a place of residence, except in
cases stipulated by law.
2. Everyone shall have the right to leave the territory of the Republic. Citizens of the
Republic shall have the right to freely return to the Republic.
Article 22
1. Everyone shall have the right to freedom of conscience.
2. The right to freedom of conscience must not specify or limit universal human and civil
rights and responsibilities before the state.
Article 23
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to freedom of forming
associations. The activities of public associations shall be regulated by law.
2. The military, employees of national security, law-enforcement bodies and judges must
abstain from membership in political parties, trade unions, and actions in support of any political
party.
Article 24
1. Everyone shall have the right to freedom of labor, and the free choice of occupation and
profession. Involuntary labor shall be permitted only on a sentence of court or in the conditions
of a state of emergency or martial law.
2. Everyone shall have the right to safe and hygienic working conditions, to just
remuneration for labor without discrimination, as well as to social protection against
unemployment.
3. The right to individual and collective labor disputes with the use of methods for resolving
them, stipulated by law including the right to strike, and shall be recognized.
4. Everyone shall have the right to rest. Working labor agreements stipulating the length of
working time, days-off and holidays, and paid annual leave shall be guaranteed by law.
Article 25
1. Housing shall be inviolable. Deprivation of housing shall not be permitted unless
otherwise stipulated by a court decision. Penetration into housing, its inspection and search shall
be permitted only in cases and according to the procedure stipulated by law.
2. Conditions shall be created in the Republic of Kazakhstan to provide citizens with
housing. Citizens in need of housing shall be categorized in a manner, to be prescribed by law
and provided with housing at an affordable price from the state housing funds in accordance with
the norms stipulated by law.
Article 26
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan may privately own any legally acquired property.
2. Property, including the right of inheritance, shall be guaranteed by law.
3. No one may be deprived of his property, unless otherwise stipulated by a court decision.
Forcible alienation of property for the public use in extraordinary cases stipulated by law, may
be exercised on condition of its equivalent compensation.
4. Everyone shall have the right to freedom of entrepreneurial activity, and free use of his
property for any legal entrepreneurial activity. Monopolistic activity shall be regulated and
limited by law. Unfair competition shall be prohibited.
Article 27
1. Marriage and family, motherhood, fatherhood and childhood shall be under the protection
of the state.
2. Care of children and their upbringing shall be a natural right and responsibility of parents.
3. Able-bodied children of age must take care of their disabled parents.
Article 28
1. A citizen of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be guaranteed a minimum wage and
pension, and guaranteed social security in old age, in case of disease, disability or loss of a
breadwinner and other legal grounds.
2. Voluntary social insurance, creation of additional forms of social security, and charity
shall be encouraged.
Article 29
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to protection of health.
2. Citizens of the Republic shall be entitled to free, guaranteed, extensive medical assistance
established by law.
3. Paid medical treatment shall be provided by state and private medical institutions, as well
as by people engaged in private medical practice on the terms and according to the procedures,
stipulated by law.
Article 30
1. The citizens shall be guaranteed free secondary education in state educational
establishments. Secondary education shall be obligatory.
2. A citizen shall have the right to receive on a competitive basis a higher education in a state
higher educational establishment.
3. The citizens shall have the right to pay and receive an education in private educational
establishments on the basis and terms, established by law.
4. The state shall set uniform compulsory standards in education. The activity of any
educational establishment must comply with these standards.
Article 31
1. The state shall set an objective to protect the environment, favorable for the life and health
of the person.
2. Officials shall be held accountable for the concealment of facts and circumstances
endangering the life and health of the people in accordance with law.
Article 32
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to peacefully and without arms
assemble, hold meetings, rallies and demonstrations, street processions and pickets. The use of
this right may be restricted by law in the interests of state security, public order, and protection
of health, rights and freedoms of other persons.
Article 33
1. Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to participate in the
government of the state’s affairs directly and through their representatives, to address personally
as well as to direct individual and collective appeals to public and local self-administrative
bodies.
2. Citizens of the Republic shall have the right to elect and be elected into public and local
self-administrations as well as to participate in an all-nation referendum.
3. The right to elect and be elected, to participate in the all-nation referendum shall not
extend to the citizens judged incapable by a court as well as those held in places of confinement
on a court’s sentence.
4. Citizens of the Republic shall have the equal right to serve in a public office. The
requirements for candidates for public offices shall be conditioned only by the character of the
office duties and shall be established by law.
Article 34
1. Everyone must observe the Constitution, legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan and
respect the rights, freedoms, honor and dignity of other persons.
2. Everyone must respect the state symbols of the Republic.
Article 35
Payment of legally established taxes, fees and other obligatory payments shall be a duty and
responsibility of everyone.
Article 36
1. Defense of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be a sacred duty and responsibility of its
every citizen.
2. Citizens of the Republic shall perform military service according to the procedure and in
the forms established by law.
Article 37
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan must care for the protection of historical and cultural
heritage, and preserve monuments of history and culture.
Article 38
Citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan must preserve nature and protect natural resources.
Article 39
1. Rights and freedoms of an individual and citizen may be limited only by laws and only to
the extent necessary for protection of the constitutional system, defense of the public order,
human rights and freedoms, health and morality of the population.
2. Any actions capable of upsetting interethnic concord shall be deemed unconstitutional.
3. Any form of restrictions to the rights and freedoms of the citizens on political grounds
shall not be permitted. Rights and freedoms stipulated by articles 10-11; 13-15 paragraph 1 of
article 16; article 17; article 19; article 22; paragraph 2 of article 26 of the Constitution shall not
be restricted in any event.
Section III.
The President
Article 40
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be the head of the state, its highest
official determining the main guidelines of the domestic and foreign policy of the state and
representing Kazakhstan within the country and in international relations.
2. The President of the Republic shall be the symbol and guarantor of the unity of the people
and the state power, inviolability of the Constitution, rights and freedoms of an individual and
citizen.
3. The President of the Republic shall ensure by his arbitration, concerted functioning of all
branches of state power and responsibility of the institutions of power before the people.
Article 41
1. The President of the Republic shall be elected by universal, equal and direct suffrage
under a secret ballot for a five-year term in accordance with the Constitutional Law by the
citizens of the Republic, who have come of age.
2. A citizen of the Republic shall be eligible for the office of the President of the Republic of
Kazakhstan if he is by birth not younger, than thirty-five and not older, than sixty-five, and has a
perfect command of the state language and has lived in Kazakhstan for not less than fifteen
years.
3. Regular elections of the President of the Republic shall be held on the first Sunday of
December and shall not coincide with the election of a new Parliament of the Republic.
3-1. extraordinary presidentialelections shall be assigned bythe decision ofthe President of
theRepublic andshall be heldin the procedure andterms, established by the Constitutional Law.
4. Is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on 07.10.1998 No 284
5. The candidate, who receives more than 50 percent of the votes of the constituents, who
have taken part in the election shall be deemed elected. If none of the candidates receives the
above number of votes, the second round of elections shall be held between the two candidates,
who have obtained the largest number of votes. The candidate who receives the larger number of
votes of the constituents, who have taken part in the second round of elections shall be deemed
elected.
Footnote: Article 41 as amended by laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, datedon 07.10.1998
No 284: See resolutions of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
09.10.1998 No 9/2; dated on 19.08.2005 No 5; dated on 21.05.2007 N 254 (shall be enforced from the
day of its official publication); dated on 02.02.2011 No 403-IV(shall be enforced from the day of its official
publication).
Article 42
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall take office from the moment of
swearing to the people the following oath: «I solemnly swear that I will faithfully serve the
people of Kazakhstan, strictly observe the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, guarantee the rights and freedoms of the citizens, honestly perform the high duties
of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan entrusted to me.»
2. The oath shall be taken on the second Wednesday of January in a ceremonial atmosphere
in the presence of the deputies of Parliament, the members of the Constitutional Council, the
judges of the Supreme Court, as well as all former Presidents of the Republic. In the case,
stipulated by article 48 of the Constitution, the person who assumes the powers of the President
of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall take the oath within one month from the day of assumption
of the powers of the President of the Republic.
3. The powers of the President of the Republic shall terminate from the moment, the newly
elected President of the Republic takes office as well as in the case of early discharge from
office, resignation or death. All former Presidents of the Republic, except those who were
discharged from office shall have the title of ex-President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
4. (The item is excluded by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on October 7, 1998
No 284)
5. One and the same person may not be elected to the President of the Republic more than
two times in a row.
This restriction shall not apply to the First President of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote: Article 42, as amended by the Laws of the Repiblic of Kazakhstan, dated on
October 7, 1998 No 284; dated May 21, 2007N254 (Shall be enforcedfrom the day ofits official
publication.)
Article 43
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall not have the right to be a deputy of a
representative body, occupy other paid positions and engage in entrepreneurial activity.
2. (is excluded dated May 21, 2007 No 254)
Footnote: Article 43 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on May
21, 2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication).
Article 44
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall:
1) Annually address the people of Kazakhstan with a message on the state of the country and
main guidelines of the domestic and foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) Appoint regular and extraordinary elections to the Parliament of the Republic and its
Chambers; convene the first session of Parliament and accept the oath of its members to the
people of Kazakhstan; call extraordinary joint sessions of the Chambers of Parliament; sign laws
submitted by the Senate of Parliament within a month, promulgate the law or return the law or its
separate articles for a second discussion and vote;
3) after consultations with factions of the political parties, represented in the Majilis of the
Parliament submit the candidature of Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan for approval
by Majilis; appoint a Prime Minister of the Republic with the consent of the Majilis of the
Parliament; discharge him from office; pursuant to the proposal of the Prime Minister determine
the structure of the Government of the Republic,form, abolish and reorganize central executive
bodies of the Republic which are not included into the Government, appoint to positions of the
members of the Republic’s Government;appoint to the positions ofMinisters of ForeignAffairs,
Defense,Interior Affairs, Justice;discharge from officemembers of the Government; accept the
oath of the members of the Government; chair the sessions of the Government on especially
important issues; charge the Government with bringing a bill into the Majilis of Parliament;
repeal or suspend completely or partially the effect of the acts of the Government and Prime
Minister of the Republic, akims of the regions, cities of the Republic significance and the capital;
4) Appoint to the positions of the Chairperson of the National Bank, Prosecutor General and
Chairperson of the Committee of National Security of the Republic with the consent of the
Senate of Parliament with the Parliament's consent; discharge them from office;
5) Create, abolish and reorganize national bodies which are directly subordinate and
accountable to the President of the Republic,
6) Appoint and recall the heads of diplomatic representative offices of the Republic;
7) Appoint the Chairperson and two members of the Central Election Commission, the
Chairperson and two members of the Estimation Committee for Control over Implementation of
the Republican Budget for a five year term;
8) Approve national programs of the Republic;
9) approve the unified system of financing and labour payment for all bodies financed by the
national budget of the Republic pursuant to the proposal of the Prime Minister of the Republic;
10) Adopt a resolution on conductof the national referendum;
11) Conduct negotiations and sign international treaties of the Republic; sign ratification
instruments; letters of credentials and recall from diplomatic and other representatives of foreign
states accredited to him;
12) Act as the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Republic, appoint and
discharge from office the highest command of the Armed Forces;
13) Award state decorations of the Republic; confer honorary, highest military and other
ranks, ranked positions, diplomatic ranks and qualification degrees;
14) Resolve issues of citizenship of the Republic, and granting of political asylum;
15) Exercise pardon of citizens;
16) in the event of a serious and immediate threat to the democratic institutions of the
Republic, its independence and territorial integrity, political stability of the Republic, security of
its citizens and the disruption of normal functioning of the Constitutional bodies of the state,
after official consultations with Prime Minister and Chairpersons of the Parliamentary Chambers
of the Republic take measures dictated by the above circumstances includingimposition of a state
of emergency on the entire territory and in particular areas of Kazakhstan, and immediately
inform the Parliament of the use of the Armed Forces of the Republic;
17) in the case of aggression against the Republic or immediate external threat to its security,
the President shall impose martial law on the entire territory of the Republic or in its particular
areas, declare a partial or total mobilization and immediately inform the Parliament of the
Republic about it;
18) Form the Republican Guard and the Presidential Guard subordinated to the President;
19) Appoint to and discharge from office the State Secretary of the Republic of Kazakhstan,
determine his status and powers; form the Administration of the President of the Republic;
20) Form the Security Counciland other consultative and advisory bodies as well asthe
Assembly of People of Kazakhstan and the Supreme Judicial Council;
21) Exercise other powers in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Republic.
Footnote: Article 44 is amended by the Law of the Repiblic of Kazakhstan, dated on October
7, 1998 No 284. See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan,
dated on June 30, 1999 No 10/2. See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, dated on July 3, 2000 15/2. See resolution of the Constitutional Council of the
Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on November 12, 2001 No 14/2. Article 44 as amended by the Law
of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on May 21, 2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of
its official publication).
Article 45
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, on the basis of and for the exercise of the
Constitution and the laws, shall issue decrees and resolutions which are binding on the entire
territory of the Republic.
2. In the case stipulated by subparagraph 4) of the Article 53 of the Constitution the
President of the Republic shall issue laws, and in the case stipulated by subparagraph 2) of the
Article 61 of the Constitution, the President of the Republic shall issue decrees having the force
of laws of the Republic.
3. The acts of Parliament signed by the President of the Republic as well as the acts of the
President issued on the initiative of the Government shall be preliminary signed respectively by
the Chairperson of each Parliament's Chambers or the Prime Minister who shall be juridically
responsible for the legality of these acts.
Article 46
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, his honour and dignity shall be inviolable.
2. Provision, service, and guard of the President of the Republic and his family shall be
carried out at the state's expense.
3. The provisions of this article shall apply to ex-Presidents of the Republic.
4. Status and powers of the First President of Kazakhstan shall be determined by the
Constitution of the Republic and Constitutional Law.
Footnote: Article 46 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on May
21, 2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication).
Article 47
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan may be prematurely discharged from office
in the case of continued incapacity to carry out his duties due to illness. In this case, the
Parliament shall form a commission consisting of equal numbers of deputies from each Chamber
and specialists in the corresponding areas of medicine. The decision onearlydischarge shall be
adopted at a joint sitting of the Parliament's Chambers by the majority of no less than three-
fourths from the total number of deputies of each Chamberon the grounds ofopinion of the
commission and the Constitutional Council on compliance with the established constitutional
procedures.
2. The President of the Republic shall bear responsibility for the actions performed, while
carrying out his duties and only in the case of high treason may be discharged from office by
Parliament. The decision to bring an accusation and conduct its investigation may be adopted by
the majority of the deputies of the Majilis at the initiative of no less, than one-third of the total
number of its deputies. Investigation of the accusation shall be organized by the Senate and its
results shall be transferred for consideration by the majority of votes of the total number of the
deputies of the Senate at a joint session of the Parliament's Chambers. The final decision of this
issue shall be adopted at the joint session of the Parliament's Chambers by the majority of no less
than three-fourths of the total number of the deputies of each Chamber if there isopinion of the
Supreme Court on the validity of the accusation and conclusion of the Constitutional Council on
compliance with the established constitutional procedures. The failure to make a final decision
within two months from the moment of the accusation shall result in the recognition of rejection
of the accusation against the President of the Republic. Rejection of the accusation of the
President of the Republic in commission of high treason at any stage shall result in early
termination of the powers of the deputies of the Majilis, who initiated the consideration of this
issue.
3. The issue of discharge of the President of the Republic from office may not be initiated
within the period of consideringby him the issueon early termination of the powers of the
Parliament of the Republic or the Majilis of the Parliament.
Footnote: Article 47 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on May
21, 2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication).
Article 48
1. In case of earlydischarge or impeachment of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan
from office as well as in case of his death the powers of the President of the Republic shall be
transmitted for the remaining period to the Chairperson of the Senate of Parliament; if the
Chairperson of the Senate is unable to assume the powers of the President, they shall pass to the
Chairperson of the Majilis of Parliament; if the Chairperson of the Majilis is unable to assume
the powers of the President, they shall pass to the Prime Minister of the Republic. The person
who assumes the powers of the President of the Republic shall resign his powers respectively of
the Chairperson of the Senate, the Chairperson of the Majilis, the Prime Minister. In that case
substitution of vacant state offices shall be performed in accordance with the procedure
stipulated by the Constitution.
2. The person who assumes the powers of the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan, by
terms and in accordance with the procedure stipulated by paragraph 1 of this article shall not
have the right to initiate amendments and supplements to the Constitution of the Republic of
Kazakhstan.
Footnote:. Article 48 in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
October 7, 1998 No 284
Section IV.
PARLIAMENT
Article 49
1. Parliament of the Republic of Kazakhstan is the highest representative body of the
Republic performing legislative functions.
2. Parliament's powers shall begin from the opening of its first session and terminate with the
first session of the Parliament of a new convocation.
3. The powers of Parliament may be terminated early in cases and procedure stipulated by
the Constitution.
4. The organization and activity of Parliament, the legal status of its deputies shall be
determined by Constitutional Law.
Footnote: Article 49 is amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
October 7, 1998 No 284. See Resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, dated on July 14, 1999 No 13/2.
Article 50
1. Parliament shall consist of two Chambers: the Senate and the Majilis, which act on the
permanent basis.
2. The Senate shall be composed of deputies in the procedure stipulated by Constitutional
Lawrepresenting by two individuals from each region,, city of the Republic, significance and
capital of the Republic of Kazakhstan. Fifteen deputies of the Senate shall be assigned by the
President of the Republic, accounting the need of provision of the representation of national
cultural and other significant interests of the society in the Senate
3. The Majilis shall consist of one hundred and seven deputies elected in the procedure
established by the Constitutional Law.
4. A deputy of Parliament may not be a member of both Chambers at the same time.
5. The term of powers of the Senate’s deputies shall be six years, and the term of the
deputies of the Majilis shall be five years.
Footnote: Article 50 is amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated October 7,
1998 No 284. See Resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated
March 15, 1999 No 1/2;dated February 11, 2003 No 1; dated February 12, 2004 No 1. Article 50
as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated May 21, 2007 No 254 (shall be
enforced from the day of its official publication).
Article 51
1. Election of the ninety eight deputies of the Majilis shall be carried out on the basis of the
universal, equal and direct suffrageby secret ballot. Nine deputies of the Majilis shall be elected
by the Assembly of the People of Kazakhstan. Regular elections of the deputies of the Majilis
shall be held no later than two months before the expiry of term of powers of the current
Parliament convocation.
2. The election of deputies of the Senate shall be carried out on the basis of indirect suffrage
by secret ballot. Half of the elected deputies of the Senate shall be re-elected every three years.
In this case, their regular elections shall be held no later than two months before the expiry of
their term of office.
3. Extraordinary elections of the deputies of Parliament or the Majilis of Parliament shall be
held within two months from the day of early termination of the powers of the Parliament or the
Majilis of the Parliament respectively.
4. A deputy of the Parliament may be a personwhois a citizen of the Republic of
Kazakhstanand who has been a permanent resident for the lasten years on its territory. A deputy
of the Senate may be a personwho has reached thirty years of age, has a higher education and
length of service of not less than five years, and has been a permanent resident for not less than
three years on the territory of the respective region, city of the Republic significance or the
capital of the Republic. A deputy of the Majilis may be a person who has reached twenty-five
years of age.
5. Elections of the deputies of the Parliament of the Republic shall be regulated by the
Constitutional Law.
6. A deputy of the Parliament shall take an oath to the people of Kazakhstan.
Footnote: Article 51 is amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
October 7, 1998 No 284. See Resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, dated on March 18, 1999 No 5/2; dated on November 29, 1999 No 24/2; dated on
February 11, 2003 No 1. Article 51, as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated
on May 21, 2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication).
Article 52
1. (is excluded dated May 21, 2007 No 254).
2. The deputies of Parliament must take part in its work. Voting in the Parliament shall be
carried out by a deputy only in person. Absence of a deputy at sessions of the Chambers and
their bodies without good reasons for more than three times as well as transferring the right to
vote shall entail application of penalty measures established by law to the deputy.
3. A deputy of Parliament shall have no right to be a deputy of another representative body,
occupy other paid positions, except teaching, research and creative activities, engage in
entrepreneurial activity, be a member of a governing body or a supervisory board of a
commercial organization. Violation of this rule shall entail the termination of a deputy's powers.
4. A deputy of Parliament during the term of his office may not be arrested, subject to
detention, measures of administrative punishment imposed judicially, charged with criminal
liability without the consent of a respective Chamber except for the cases of being detained at the
scene of a crime or commissionof serious crimes.
5. The powers of a deputy of the Parliament shall be terminated in cases of resignation, his
death, being recognized as incapable, dead or untraceable by valid judgment of the court, and in
other cases stipulated by the Constitution and the Constitutional Law.
A deputy of the Parliament shall be deprived of his mandate in cases of:
1) His departure for permanent residence beyond the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) The entry into force of the conviction of a courtagainst him;
3) Loss of citizenship of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
A deputy of the Majilis of Parliament shall be deprived of his mandate in cases of:
1) Withdrawal or expulsion of a deputy from a political party, from which, in accordance
with constitutional law, he has been elected;
2) Termination of a political party, from which, in accordance with constitutional law, the
deputy elected.
The powers of appointed deputies of the Senate of Parliament may be early terminated by
the decision of the President of the Republic.
The powers of the deputies of the Parliament and the Majilis of Parliament shall be early
terminated in cases of dissolution of the Parliament and the Majilis of Parliament respectively.
6. Preparation of issues concerning the application of penalty measuresto the deputies, their
compliance with the requirements of item 3 of this article, rules of the deputy ethics, as well as
termination of the deputies' powers and deprivation of their powers and deputy inviolability,
shall be imposed to the Central Election Commission of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Footnote: Article 52 is amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
October 7, 1998 No 284;See Resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, dated on May 17, 2001 No 7/2;Resolution of the Constitutional Council of the
Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on December 13, 2001 No 19/2; dated on January 30, 2003 No 10;
dated February 11, 2003 No 1; dated May 12, 2003 No 5; dated on August 25, 2004 No 9. Article
52, as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on May 21, 2007 No 254 (shall
be enforced from the day of its official publication).
Article 53
Parliament at a joint session of the Chambers shall:
1) Introduce amendments and supplements to the Constitution pursuant to the proposal of the
President of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
2) Approve the reports of the Government and the Estimation Committee for Control over
Implementation of Republican Budget on the implementation of the national budget.
Disapproval by the Parliament of the Government report on the implementation of the national
budget meaning the expression of vote of non-confidence to the Government by Parliament;
3) Have the right to delegate him legislative powers for a term not exceeding one year by
two-thirds of votesfromtotal number of deputies of each Chamber pursuant to the initiative of the
President;
4) Decide issues of war and peace;
5) Make decision to use the Armed Forces of the Republic pursuant to the proposal of the
President of the Republic to fulfill international obligations for the maintenance of peace and
security;
6) Hear annual messages of the Constitutional Council on the state of the constitutional
legality in the Republic;
7) Form joint commissions of the Chambers, elect and discharge from office their chairmen,
hear reports on the activity of the commissions;
8) Exercise other powers assigned to the Parliament by the Constitution.
Footnote: Article 53 in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
21.05.2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication; see the regulatory
resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on 26.06.2008 No
5.
Article 54
1. The Parliament ata separate session of the Chambers through consecutive consideration of
issues first in the Majilis and then in the Senate shall adopt constitutional laws and laws as well
as:
1) Approve the national budget, introduce it with amendments and supplements;
2) Establish and annul state taxes and dues;
3) Establish the procedure of resolving the issues of the administrative-territorial division of
the Republic of Kazakhstan;
4) Institute state awards, honorary, military and other titles, ranked positions, diplomatic
ranks of the Republic of Kazakhstan, and determine state symbols of the Republic;
5) Decide issues of state loans and rendering of economic and other assistance by the
Republic;
6) Resolve issues of amnesty;
7) Ratify and denounce international treaties of the Republic.
2. The Parliament at a separate session of the Chambers through consecutive consideration
of issues first in the Majilis and then in the Senate shall:
1) Discuss reports on implementation of the national budget;
2) Conduct a repeated discussion and voting on the laws or articles of a law caused
objections of the President of the Republic within a month term from the day of submission of
the objections. Failure to comply with this term shall mean acceptance of thePresident’s
objections. If the Majilis or the Senate by two-thirds of the majority vote from total number of
the deputies of each Chamber approve the previous decision the President within a month shall
sign the law. If the President's objections are not overcome at least by one of the Chambers, the
law shall be considered as not adopted or adopted in the wording proposed by the President.
Objections of the Head of State to constitutional laws adopted by the Parliament shall be
considered in the procedure stipulated by this sub-item. In this case the President's objections to
the constitutional laws shall be overcome by the Parliament at least by three-fourths of votes
from total number of the deputies of each Chamber.
3) Initiate assignment of the national referendum.
Footnote: Article 54 in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
21.05.2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication); see regulatory
resolution of the Constitutional Council of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on 15.10.2008 No 8
Article 55
The following shall belong to exclusive jurisdiction of the Senate:
1) Election and discharge from office the Chairperson of the Supreme Court and judges of
the Supreme Court of the Republic pursuant to the proposal of the President of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, and acceptance of their oath;
2) Approval of the appointment of the Chairperson of the National Bank, Procurator General
and the Chairperson of the Committee of National Security by the President of the Republic of
Kazakhstan;
3) Deprivation of inviolability of the Procurator General, the Chairperson and judges of the
Supreme Court of the Republic;
4) (is excluded dated 21.05.2007 No 254);
5) Execution of the functions of Parliament of the Republic on adoption of the constitutional
laws and laws within the period of absence of the Majilis caused by the early termination of its
powers;
6) carrying out of other powers vested to the Senate of the Parliament by the Constitution.
Article 56
1. The following belongs to exclusive jurisdiction of the Majilis:
1) Accepting of drafts of the constitutional laws and laws submitted by the Parliament for
consideration and consideration of these drafts;
2) Giving consent to the President on the appointmentof the Prime-Minister of the Republic
by majority vote from the total number of deputies;
3) Announcing of the regular elections of the president of the Republic;
4) Carrying out of other powers vested to the Majilis of the Parliament by the Constitution.
2. The Majilis shall have the right to pass a vote of no-confidence to the Government by
majority vote from total number of deputies of the Majilis pursuant to the initiative of no less
than one-fifths from total number of deputies of the Majilis.
Footnote: Article 56 in the wording of the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated May 21,
2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication).
Article 57
Each Chamber of the Parliament independently, without participation of the other Chamber
shall:
1) Appoint to office two members of the Constitutional Council; appoint to the positions of
two members of the Central Election Commissionfor a five-year term, three members of the
Estimation Committee for control over implementation of the national budget;
2) Delegate half of the members of the commission formed by Parliament in the case
stipulated byArticle 47.1 of the Constitution;
3) Elect half of the members of joint commissions of the Chambers;
4) Terminate powers of the deputies of the Chambers, as well as resolve the issues of
depriving deputies of their deputy inviolabilitypursuant to the proposal of the Procurator General
of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
5) Conduct Parliamentary hearings on the issues of its jurisdiction;
6) Have the right to hear reports of the members of the Government of the Republic on the
issues of their activity, pursuant to the initiative of no less than one-third from the total number
of the deputies of the Chamber; to adopt an appeal to the President of the Republic of
Kazakhstan to discharge a member of the Government from officeby majority vote from the total
number of the deputies of the Chamber in the case of non-compliance with the laws of the
Republic. If the President of the Republic rejects such an appeal, the deputies by the majority
vote from the total number of deputies of the Chamber shall have the right repeatedly raise the
issue on dischargeof a member of the Government from officeon the expiry of six months from
the day of the first appeal. In this case the President of the Republic shall discharge the member
of the Government from office;
7) Form coordinating and working bodies of the Chambers;
8) Adopt regulation of their activities and other decisions on the issues connected with
organization and the internal routine of the Chambers.
Footnote: Article 57 as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
October 7, 1998 No 284; dated May 21, 2007 No 254(shall be enforced from the day of its official
publication).
Article 58
1. The Chambers shall be headed by their chairpersons who are elected by the Senate and the
Majilis from total number of the deputies who have a perfect command of the state language, by
secret ballot of majority vote from the total number of the deputies of the Chambers. The
candidacy for the position of the Chairperson of the Senate shall be nominated by the President
of the Republic of Kazakhstan. The candidacies for the Chairperson of the Majilis shall be
nominated by the deputies of the Chamber.
2. The Chairpersons of the Chambers may be recalled from office as well as have the right to
submit their resignation if the majority from the total number of the deputies of the Chambers
have voted for it.
3. The Chairpersons of Parliament's Chambers shall:
1) Convene sessions of the Chambers and chair them;
2) Exercise general supervision of the preparation of the issues submitted for Chaimbers’
consideration;
3) Nominateto the Chambers the candidacies for election to the positions of Deputiesof the
Chambers’ Chairpersons;
4) Ensure the compliance with the regulation in the activity of the Chambers;
5) Supervise the activity of the coordinating bodies of the Chambers;
6) Sign acts issued by the Chambers;
7) Nominateto the Chambers the candidacies for appointment to the positions of members of
the Constitutional Council, the Central Election Commission, the Estimation Committee for
Control over implementation of the national budget;
8) Carry out other duties assigned to them by the Regulation of Parliament.
4. The Chairperson of the Majills shall:
1) Open sessions of Parliament;
2) Convene regular joint sessions of the Chambers, chair regular and extraordinary joint
sessions of the Chambers.
5. The chairpersons of the Chambers shall issue instructions on the issues of their
jurisdiction.
Footnote: Article 58 as amended by the Laws of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on May
21, 2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication).
Article 59
1. Parliament’s sessions shall proceed in the form of joint and separate sessions of its
(chambers).
2. The first session of Parliament shall be convened by the President of the Republic of
Kazakhstan no later than thirty days from the day of publishing of the election results.
3. Regular sessions of the Parliament shall be held once a year from the first working day of
September to the last working day of June.
4. Session of Parliament, as a rule, shall be opened by the President of the Republic and
closed at joint sessions of the Senate and Majilis. In the period between Parliament’s sessions,
the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan may call an extraordinary session of the Parliament
on his own initiative, at the suggestion of the Chair - person’s of the Chambers or no less than
one-thirds from the total number of the deputies of the Parliament. Only the issues that were the
reason for convocation shall be reviewed at this session.
5. Joint and separate sessions of the Chambers shall be held on condition that no less than
two-thirds from the total number of the deputies of each Chamber are present.
6. Joint and separate sessions of the Chambers shall be open. In cases stipulated by the
procedural orders, sessions may be closed. The President of the Republic, the Prime Minister and
members of the Government, the Chairperson of National Bank, the Procurator General, the
Chair-person of the Committee of National Security shall have the right to be present at any
session and be heard.
Article 60
1. The Chambers shall form standing committees, the number of which shall not exceed
seven in each Chamber.
2. The Senate and Majilis shall have the right to form joint commissions on a parity basis for
solution of issues dealing with the joint activity of the Chambers.
3. The committees and commissions shall issue resolutions on items of their jurisdictions.
4. The procedure of formation, the powers and organization of the activities of the
committees and commissions shall be determined by law.
Article 61
1. The right of a legislative initiative shall belong to the President of the Republic, the
Deputies of the Parliament, to the Government and shall be realized exclusively in the Majilis.
2. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall have the right to determine priority
consideration of draft of laws as well as to declare consideration of a draft of law urgent
signifying that Parliament must consider this draft within a month from the day of its
submission. If the Parliament does not meet this requirement, the President of the Republic shall
have the right to issue a decree having the force of law which shall be. in effect until Parliament
adopts a new law as established by the Constitution.
3. Parliament shall have the right to issue laws that regulate the most important public
relations, establish fundamental principles and standards dealing with:
1) legal capacity of individuals and legal entities, civil freedoms and rights, obligations and
responsibility of individuals and legal entities;
2) conditions of ownership and other rights of property;
3) foundations of organization and activity of state bodies and bodies of local self-
administration, state and military service;
4) taxation, establishment and levying of duties and other obligatory payments;
5) the republican budget;
6) issues of the judicial system and legal proceedings;
7) education, health care and social provision;
8) privatization of enterprises and their property;
9) environmental protection;
10) administrative-territorial structure of the Republic;
11) ensuring defense and security of the state. All other relations shall be regulated by
legislative acts.
4. A draft of law considered and approved by the majority of votes from the total number of
the deputies of the Majilis shall be transmitted to the Senate where it shall be considered for no
more than sixty days. A draft of law approved by the majority of votes of the total number of
deputies of the Senate shall become the law and shall be submitted to the President to be signed
within ten days. A draft of law rejected as a whole by the majority of votes from the total number
of the Senate’s deputies shall be returned to the Majilis. If the Majilis approves the draft of law
again by the majority of two-thirds of votes from the total number of its deputies, it shall be
transferred to the Senate for a second discussion and voting. A twice -rejected draft may not be
submitted again during the same session.
5. Amendments and supplements to a draft of law proposed by the majority of votes from the
total number of the Senate’s deputies shall be sent to the Majilis. If the Majilis by the majority of
votes from the total number of its deputies agrees with the proposed amendments and
supplements, the law shall be deemed to be adopted. If the Majilis by the same majority of votes
objects to the amendments and supplements proposed by the Senate, the disagreement between
the Chambers shall be resolved through conciliatory procedures.
5-1. the draft of the constitutional law considered and approved not less than two-thirds of
votes from the total number of the deputies of the Majilis shall be transmitted to the Senate
where it shall be considered for no more than sixty days. Adopted not less than two-thirds of
votes of total number of deputies of the Senate the draft shall become the constitutional law and
within ten days shall be submitted to the President of the Republic for the signature. The
rejecting the whole draft of the constitutional law shall be carried out by Majilis or the Senate by
the majority of votes from total number of the deputies of the Chamber. Brought by the Senate
not less than two thirds of votes of its deputies, changes and supplements in the draft of the
constitutional law shall direct to Majilis. If the Majilis not less than two-thirds of votes of its
deputies shall agree with the changes brought by the Senate and supplements, the constitutional
law shall be considered accepted. If the Majilis, at voting by the changes brought by the Senate
and supplements shall be disagreed with them, not less than two-thirds of votes of deputies’
disagreements between Chambers, shall be resolved by conciliation procedures.
6. Drafts of law envisioning reduction of state revenues or increase in state expenditures may
be submitted only when supplied with the positive resolution of the Government of the Republic.
For drafts of the acts brought in Majilis of the Parliament as the legislative initiative of the
President of the Republic, presence of such conclusion shall not required.
7. In the case when of a draft of law submitted by the Government is not adopted, the Prime-
Minister shall have the right to raise an issue of confidence in the Government at a joint session
of the Chambers. Voting on this issue shall be held not earlier than within forty-eight hours from
the moment of calling for a vote of confidence. If the call for a vote of no confidence does not
receive the majority of votes from total number of deputies of each of Chambers, a draft of law
shall be deemed adopted without voting. However, the Government may not use this right more
than twice a year.
Article 62
1. The Parliament shall adopt legislative acts in the form of laws of the Republic of
Kazakhstan, resolutions of the Parliament, resolutions of the Senate and the Majilis having
obligatory force over the whole territory of the Republic.
2. Laws of the Republic shall come into effect after they are signed by the President of the
Republic.
3. Amendments and supplements to the Constitution shall be introduced by the majority of
no less than three-fourths of votes from the total number of the deputies of each chamber.
4. Constitutional laws shall be adopted on the issues stipulated by the Constitution by the
majority of no less than two-thirds of votes from the total number of the deputies of each
Chamber.
5. Legislative acts of the Parliament and its Chambers shall be adopted by the majority of
votes from the total number of the deputies of the Chambers unless otherwise stipulated by the
Constitution.
6. No less than two readings introducing amendments and supplements to the Constitution of
the Republic of Kazakhstan shall be obligatory.
7. Laws of the Republic, resolutions of the Parliament and its Chambers must not contradict
the Constitution.
Resolutions of the Parliament and its Chambers must not contradict laws.
8. The procedure for development, submission, discussion, bringing into effect and
promulgation of legislative and other regulatory legal acts of the Republic shall be regulated by a
special law and the procedural orders of Parliament and its Chambers.
Article 63
1. The President of the Republic of Kazakhstan after consultations of the Chairpersons of the
Chambers of the Parliament and the Prime Minister may dissolve the Parliament or the Majilis of
the Parliament.
2. The Parliament and the Majilis of the Parliament may not be dissolved in the period of a
state of emergency or martial law, during the last six months of the President’s term, as well as
within a year after a previous dissolution26
Footnote: Article 63 is in the wording of the Law datedon May 21, 2007 No 254 ( shall be
enforced from the day of its official publication.)
The Government
Article 64
1. The Government shall implement the executive power of the Republic of Kazakhstan,
head the system of executive bodies and exercise supervision of their activity.
2. The Government shall be a collegial body and in its entire activity responsible before the
President of the Republic, and in the cases provided by the Constitution, before the Majilis of the
Parliament and the Parliament.
3. Members of the Government shall be accountable to the Chambers of Parliament in the
case stipulated by paragraph 6 of Article 57 of the Constitution.
4. The jurisdiction, the procedure of organization and activity of the Government shall be
determined by constitutional law27.
Footnote: Article 62, as amended by the Law of Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on May 21,
2007 No 254 (shall be enforced from the day of its official publication.)
Article 65
1. The Government shall be formed by the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan
according to the procedure stipulated by this Constitution.
2. Suggestions about the structure and composition of the Government shall be submitted to
the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan by the Prime Minister of the Republic within ten
days after his appointment.
3. The members of the Government shall take an oath to the people and President of
Kazakhstan.
Article 66
The Government shall:
1) develop the main directions of the socio-economic policy of the state, its defense
capability, security, guarantee of public order and organize their realization; 2) present to the
Parliament the republican budget and a report about its performance, ensure implementation of
the budget;
3) introduce draft of laws into the Majilis and ensure enforcement of laws;
4) organize management of state property;
5) develop measures for the conduct of the foreign policy of the Republic of Kazakhstan;
6) manage the activity of ministries, state committees, other central and local executive
bodies;
7) annul or suspend completely or partially, the effect of acts of ministries, state committees,
other central and local executive bodies of the Republic;
8) appoint to and release from office heads of central executive bodies not encompassed by
the Government;
9) It was excluded according to Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan 07.10.98 No 284-I.
10) perform other functions assigned to it by this Constitution, laws and acts of the
President.
Footnote: Article 66, as amended by the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan, dated on
October 7, 1998 No 284. See the decision of the Constitutional Council of Republic of
Kazakhstan, dated on March 17, 1999 No 4/2, the decision of the Constitutional Council of
Republic of Kazakhstan dated on April 12, 2001 No 1/2.
Article 67
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan shall: 1) organize and supervise the work
of the Government, personally answer for its work;
2) It was excluded according to Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan 21.05.07 No 254-III;
3) sign resolutions of the Government;
4) report the main directions of the Government’s activity and all of its important decisions
to the President;